Deriving functional safety requirements and allocating those requirements to
the system architecture is the main part of a functional safety concept.
To finish up the lesson,
we still need to talk about three more attributes of a functional safety requirement.
The fault tolerant time interval,
the warning and degradation concept,
and the verification of validation acceptance criteria.
We'll start with the fault tolerant time interval.
We need to define how long the system has to detect and then react to a malfunction.
We call this the fault tolerant time interval.
Let's look at our ADS lane departure warning as an example.
One concern is that the warning vibration amplitude will be too high.
If the amplitude does get too high then a malfunction,
also called the fault, has occurred.
It will take the system a certain amount of time to detect
a malfunction and signals travel through the hardware and the software.
This is the diagnostic test interval.
Once the system detects the high amplitude,
it will take time for the vehicle to turn off the lane departure warning function.
This is the fault reaction time.
Once turned off, the lane assistance system has reached
a safe state where risk is at acceptable levels.
We want the lane assistance system to reach a safe state before an accident has occurred.
So there is a buffer between when the system reaches
a safe state and when an accident would have occurred.
So fault tolerant time interval equals
diagnostic test interval plus fault
reaction time plus time in safe state before an accident.
Each safety requirement receives a fault tolerant time interval.
We will say that the lane departure warning system
has a fault tolerant time interval of 50 milliseconds.
You can use this value for the two functional safety requirements already discussed.
This is an example of value you might see in practice but
the real world lane departure warning function might have a different value.
The fault tolerant time interval let's us know
how much time the vehicle has to react to a malfunction.